Imagine someone broke into your house
then attacked your father and
siblings, what will you do in this case?
surely you will break
the ceiling over his head
but, will you do the same thing if this guy
didn't break into your house and instead
broke into the house beside you?
ok, what about he broke into a house
in a different street.... in a different
state
in every situation, the severity
of the reaction will decrease
surely, this is what the borders
between countries made to us
"From a different angle"
in 1916,
two well known Army generals got together
whom we can call "The
Middle East Engineers",
Mark Sykes and Georges Picot
to sign a secret agreement
for the partition of the "Fertile Crescent"
between France and Britain
to define their spheres of
influence and control in west Asia
moreover, to partition the Ottoman empire
which was the controling that region
in the first World War
and it happened to
grant this agreement
a delusional legitimacy to the
western colonizers of our lands
but on the other side
creating [unintentionally]
resistance fighter
this resistance that was scattered across
many different countries
after we were a one entity
bringing it together a one Caliph
throughout those long decades
for the first time, the resistance
has become exposed and scattered
behind the bounderies
for every resistance becoming just
a partial resistance that only focuses
on its own country,
focusing on its own independence.
Independence came
and our countries started
getting its own independence
in isolation from its
Neighboring countries
then we started hearing about Nationalism
a movement that revolves individuals
around the borders of their state
and it makes them forget their greater
belonging, their affiliation to Islam!.
In the past the boundaries
were flexible and wasn't that strict
like nowadays.
in addition to that, it was
changing over time
and people didn't pay any attention to it
thus the boundaries of Egypt,
the Levant, the Hijaz and Morocco
occasionally narrow and widen over time
and the only constant thing was
the unity of people and Islamic brotherhood.
Politicians were fighting [over ruling]
and Countries were toppling each other
however the nation was
cohesive and united together
moreover, the Egyptian wasn't preventing
his Morrocan brother from having a Visa
and People defended neighboring Countries
without it being in their boundaries
because all Muslim countries are considered their own country
and every oppresser on Islamic land
in far East
is an oppresser on their houses in far West.
From a different angle:
do you remember the nationality of Salah ad-Din al-Ayyubi?
Saif ad-Din Qutuz?
what about al-Zahir Baybars?
do you know it?
you might now the nationalism of Suleiman al-Halabi
which is obvious from his name
Aleppian from the Levants
but when you learned about him in School,
did he kill Kléber for the occupation of the Levants or Egypt?
this was our determination before
Sykes broke it
and Picot messed with it.
One united nation rises for one enemy
a nation where an Egyptian
fights alongside a Levant,
a Hijazi defends a Iraqi
and Morocans call Sudanese for help
One nation with a unified heart,
united as one, they empathize
with the suffering of a single body
thus no one heard about the Occupation of Palestine
and nibbled his lips
or said: Egypt is for Egyptians,
and we have no relation with Palestinian childs
but intead Salah ad-Din
(whose from Tikrit in Iraq)
went to Levants to reform it,
then, to Egypt to free it from the Fatimids
and from there went towards Palestine
to liberate it from the
hands of the Crusaders
But when the occupation had sown its seeds within us [Nationalism seeds],
many of us became oblivious to what is happening nearby
and ironically Westerns has alleviated
from Nationalism
and became having Military alliances,
things like European single market,
Euro currency
and there they are coming out
in joint statements
supporting the occupiers and oppressors
while we see our brothers in Gaza are
under bombardments in helpless silence
and we don't hear any statements
supporting them materially
or even morally!
O Muslim Ummah, till
when will this continue?